Question 16, which statements are true?
A, noopener is used to prevent
the original page from accessing
the window object of the newly open page.
Noreferrer can be used to prevent
the newly opened page from accessing
the window object of the original page.
Noopener and
norefer can only be used with HTTPS.
Noopener can be used to
prevent tabnabbing or
the default Referrer-Policy
is no-refer-one-downgrade.
Which statements are true?
It's only B, norefer can be used
to prevent the newly opened page
from accessing the window
object of the original page and
D, noopener can be used
to prevent tabnabbing.
So first kind of an example, let's say
we have a community resources page here.
And this is just a lot of cards
with link to external resources.
So external websites and
we're using target blank.
So whenever user clicks on it,
it opens that new page in a new tab.
Now usually,
this tab can access window.opener and
this has access to the window object
of the page that opens that window.
Now what can happen is that
if the developers aren't so
nice they can change the developer
location to maybe evil site.
I don't know what that
happened right there.
But anyway, and then when a user would
click back they would be redirected to
this site without knowing,
cuz they think they're just going back
to the site where they navigate it from.
And in some cases this is still evil site.
This is not the website
where we came from.
They're like, oops,
how your session has expired.
If they know exactly where you came from,
so
now you're giving your
credentials to this evil site,
even though you think you're on the other
side or on the site you came from.
This is called tapnabbing or
browser hijacking, yeah,
cuz you're basically hijacking
a user's navigation state.
So with target blank, we can use the no
opener to ensure that window.opener always
just returns null, so that can't happen,
they can't change that value.
Now currently in Chrome, and I'm not
sure how it isn't in other browsers,
but when you use target blank
row noopener is implied,
so you don't necessarily
always have to type it again.
But if your users are on older browsers,
this is still very good to just add it,
just to make sure.
Then we have another one.
I guess we're doing the same thing, but
now they can also, so in the URL bar of
the website where we came from, we now
have kind of a sensitive query parameter.
We have the userID.
Now this could have been anything else,
just any query parameter that
might be sensitive to that user.
So on the page that just opened,
they can see the document that refers.
So the page that referred them to that
new page, which you often maybe use
when you use for analytics or tracking,
where did this opener come from?
But now they also have access
to that query program.
Maybe this is a sensitive user ID and they
can see that, and they can track that,
they can do whatever
they wanna do with that.
So for that, we can use a noreferrer.
So this ensures that document referrer
always just returns an empty string, but
also document the referrer,
make sure that noopener is also implied.
So whenever you're using this,
you're basically also using noopener.
So window.opener is also no.
But it's always good to add
both noreferrer, noopener for
browsers that may not support
noreferrer but do support noopener.
All the all the good stuff browser, yep.
So A is false, noopener is used to
prevent the original page from accessing
the window of the newly opened page.
It's reversed, right?
So, noopener is used to
prevent the newly opened
page from accessing the original
page's window object.
And then B is true, which is a bit tricky,
cuz it can be used to prevent the newly
opened page from accessing the window
object of the original page,
even though that's not it's main
intention, it's more to make
sure that the referrer header is
omitted when navigating to that page.
But it also implies that, or it also adds
noopener, kind of implicitly, right?
Noopener and noreferrer can only
be used with HTTPS is false,
you can also use it with HTTP.
While we saw how noopener could be
used to prevent tabnabbing, right?
To change that location,
when you can't do that anymore.
And the default Referrer-Policy
is no-referrer-when-downgrade.
This used to be the case, and
so I believe 2020, 2019, but
now it is the strict
origin when cross origin.
So we can use this Referrer-Policy
to kind of be in some cases include
the referrer in some cases don't.
So for example, the
no-referrer-when-downgrade means if you go
from HTTPS to HTTP, then don't include
the referrer, cuz it's insecure.
But now it's strict
origin when cross-origin.
So if it's cross-origin, you only
include the origin of the referrer.
So if we go back to this one, it would,
for example, only include www.website.com,
but not any path or
any parameters, stuff like that.
You can overwrite this on an anchor tag as
well to say refer a policy should be maybe
no-referre or, I don't know, you can just
adapt it to the way that you need it.
To also ensure that maybe other pages
still have the right tracking, cuz
referrers are still, it's not a bad thing
to know the referer of other navigation.
They still have a lot of use cases.
Yeah, that made sense?
So yeah, just make sure, I mean,
even though when you're using blank,
noopener is implied, still just make
sure that if you have a lot of users and
older browsers,
this is still a very good thing to add.